[new] MST REST API (#1709)
timescale/docs: mst/restapi.md

---
title: Using REST API in Managed Service for TimescaleDB
excerpt: Use REST API in Managed Service for TimescaleDB for integration and automation
product: mst
keywords: [rest api]
---

# Using REST API in Managed Service for TimescaleDB

Managed Service for TimescaleDB has an API for integration and automation tasks.

> For information about using the endpoints, see the [API Documentation](https://api.aiven.io/doc/).

Reviewer: Turn this into a reference link.

Author: done

MST offers an HTTP API with token authentication and JSON-formatted data. You
can use the API for all the tasks that can be performed using the web console.

> <procedure>

Reviewer: This probably needs to be laid out as a process/procedure.

Author: I added s sentence now that explains the need to create an authentication token.

## Creating an authentication token in Managed Service for TimescaleDB

1.  Log in to your [Managed Service for TimescaleDB portal][mst-login].
1.  Click `User Information` in the top right corner.
1.  In the `User Profile` page, navigate to the `Authentication`tab.
1.  Click `Generate Token`.
1.  In the `Generate access token` dialog, type a descriptive name for the
    token and leave the rest of the fields blank.
1.  Copy the generated authentication token and save it.

</procedure>

<procedure>

### Using cURL to get your details

> 1.  Set the environmental variable `MST_API_TOKEN` with the access token that you generated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  Set the environment variable `MST_API_TOKEN` with the access token that you generate:
```

    ```bash
    export MST_API_TOKEN="access token"
    ```

1.  To get the details about the current user session using the `/me` endpoint:

    ```bash
    curl -s -H "Authorization: aivenv1 $MST_API_TOKEN" https://api.aiven.io/v1/me|json_pp
    ```

>     An output similar to the following appears:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The output looks similar to this:
```
